[Dr Tharindu Liyanagunawardena] Thank you.
I think first of all, we have to raise awareness of
digital accessibility and the
techniques that staff can use in
creating accessible content. Our
colleagues could be the world
experts in their field of study,
but they may not be aware of
digital accessibility, so
awareness is so important.
It is also important to show
that digital accessibility is
not an abstract concept. It's
not something out there. It's
very tangible and essential for
users. So I generally use
anecdotes and user stories.
The next thing I would say is
use the same language as the staff.
So use examples that are
relevant to them.
I generally collect examples
of inaccessible content as well
as good content from all over
the university and I try to use
something relevant to them so
that they can make a connection
to what I'm talking about.
Again I would say another
thing that would be that I use
is making life easier for staff
by creating content by giving
accessible templates and helpful
tools.
Most of all, most importantly be
there for them when they start
their accessibility journey.
They will need help and support
and make sure that they know
that there is support available
to them.
[Lara Tompkins] Thank you Tharindu . I love
especially your example about
using story and narrative to get
buy-in from your staff.
That's beautiful.
Sarah. What about you? How do
you engage your staff in creating accessible content?
[Sarah Whittaker] Yeah, for our staff, we
have a plethora of training actually.
So my job is basically
looking after the professional
development for our 1200
faculty. And we we have
accessibility training, but we
actually embedded in all of our
courses. So for example, we have
mandatory courses. So I could
have, I could have answered yes
to that last question. We have
mandatory courses that all
faculty have to take for
Blackboard for example.
And within that we showcase
not just the accessibility
features but "the why" you want to
do this. So why you want to add
an alternative description to
the image. So, as we're teaching
them to add an image into
Blackboard, we teach them about
alternative descriptions and why
you should add them. We also
teach them things like simple
Microsoft Word training.
We tell them the importance of
having having headers and sub
headers and not just trying to
create those on your own.
We also include in our
instructional design practise
a contrast colour contrast checker.
When we're looking at our
Blackboard and we're now doing a
little bit of a transition over
to Learn Ultra. So in those
trainings we're showcasing how
Learn Ultra is a bit more
forcing you to be accessible.
You know, because it's more
black and white, it's minimal
colours, it's easy to navigate
through where original you can
get a little bit crazy and you
can, you know, the faculty have
a lot more room to
mess it up, let's just say
politely. So we show them the
difference and why you want to
take those practises to the
faculty that are still using the
original LMS system. That, OK,
let's look at black and white.
Let's make sure that you're
using the headers and the
subtitles there as well, because
if you have a student who's
using, you know, a reader,
they're going to need that
support so not to disadvantage
your students. So we try to
embed it into all of the
professional development that we
provide.
And then as well we we do
flyers, we do, you know, tips,
we have a lot of EdTech tips
that we send out, we send out on
a weekly basis and we embed it
[accessibility] into those tips as well.
[Lara Tompkins] Thank you Sarah.
Yeah, I love that both of you are really
honing in on using visualisation
as a tool to really drive it
home to your staff and get them
invested. One more question, and
that is
for Esin and Terry. Do you have
any tips for countering
arguments like "I don't
have any disabled students" and
"I don't have time for this"?
Again, we'll start with Esin.
[Dr Esin Caglayan] Yeah, sure. For the
question, but "I don't have any
disabled students". My counter
argument would be you may not be
sure of that.
There may be students with
certain disabilities like
dyslexia which they themselves
are not aware of. Also there
are some students who hesitate
to submit an official report to
their instructors or to their
faculty, or share anything about
their disabilities. So we may
not be sure of you know,
different learning styles,
different preferences or
disabilities. That's why as
instructors, we should take the
lead and
what we do is we just empower
instructors through training
programmes. I created an in
house twelve module professional
development course for our
instructors and one of the
modules is only for preparing
digitally accessible materials.
And another module is about
alternative assessments
actually, which aims to
encourage instructors to
incorporate various types of
assessments, not only tests or
written assignment submissions
but other options which are
available through multimedia as
well. And we also have a
community of practise activity,
which we called TLCoP,
Community of Practise. And we
encourage instructors to share
their good practises. You know,
peer learning
is sometimes more
influential.
Recently one of our instructors,
for example from the engineering
faculty shared an application
which she developed herself.
This application aims to
turn a PDF, a static PDF
document, into an animated
PowerPoint presentation. And
this was a particularly useful
for online sessions where the
instructor is screen sharing you
know the whole PDF rather than
doing that you know, practically
preparing your PowerPoint
presentation with animations.
That has been found very
practical and welcomed by the
other instructors.
Also we prepare templates...
I mean digitally
accessible templates for our
instructors, ready made, just as
a counter argument for "I don't
have time for this". So these
templates are for course
syllabi, some assessment
instructions. You know,
those kinds of templates that
can be used across various
faculties or courses. So the
instructors themselves just
customise and use them
in their own courses as they
wish.
Thank you.
Thank you Esin.
And Terry.
What about you? What tips do you
have for counting these types of
arguments?
[Terry Green] OK, so in Ontario there's the
this thing called the AODA Act,
the Accessibility for Ontarians
with Disabilities Act and its
goal is to make
accessibility widespread and
commonplace. And you must be in
compliance. It has some
principles, the principles of
dignity, independence,
integration and equal
opportunity. So if someone said
to me,
"but I don't have any disabled students
and I don't have any time for this",
I can say, "Tough luck, pal. It's
the law and you have to do it".
So, it's kind of a no brainer
for us here in Ontario.